# cmpm121-finalProj

to be decided... welp

# Devlog Entry - 11.14.2024

## Introducing the Team

**Tools Lead:** Aidan Sterling

Aidan will be in charge of researching new tools and helping other teammembers 
set up the necessary systems. They will handle the source control and 
automated deployment

**Style Lead:** Lyssa Li

Lyssa will be in charge of code style of the project and maintaining good 
style throughout the game base. They will also set up autoformatting and 
documentation.

**Engine Lead:** Jaxon Ruiz

Jaxon will be in charge of researching about the engine and teaching the team 
how to use it. They will also establish how code will be organized and how 
systems will be designed.

**Design Lead:** Lily Chen

Lily will be in charge of setting the creative direction and look of the 
project. They will be making art samples and code samples to demonstrate how 
the designs are to be implemented.

## Tools and Materials

The chosen engine for this game is Godot and the programming language will be 
GDScript (that comes with the engine). This is because 3/4 group members have 
previously worked with the engine and all members on this team are keen on 
learning the engine for future projects. This engine is relatively light for 
laptops and has an option for web build. In addition, GDScript also has JSON 
support.

We are going to use the built in text/code editor in Godot for code. Github
will be used for source control. Merge conflicts will be resolved in Github or
VSCode. The above tools are picked because the team have used these tools 
for these purposes before. The art assets will be created on Clip Studio Paint 
as that is the application our Design Lead uses usually.

For our alternative platform, we are planning to switch from GDScript to C# 
and swapping to the .NET version of Godot that also compiles C#. We will 
only be swapping the language and not the platform.

## Outlook

We are hoping to create a systemic game with dynamic systems that will create 
emergent behavior. The current idea that we have is to include a weather 
system.

The riskiest part will be switching the programming language because we will 
have to rewrite all the code. If we do not set it up properly it will be very 
hard to do and a lot of work. Keeping track of scope and not overscoping the 
project will also be difficult.

We as a team are hoping to better learn how to use the engine Godot. Some of 
us have used the engine before but none of us are very familiar with it. We 
also hope to learn how to design good software architecture. 
